JavaScript works on a single-threaded model, which means it can execute only one piece of code at a time, and this execution happens inside the Call Stack. 
The call stack is like a stack of tasks where functions are added and removed following the LIFO (Last In, First Out) principle—so the most recently 
added function executes first. All synchronous code runs here directly, one line after another.
(js--->1.native js features 2. additonal capability(DOM and WebApi) of js given by runtime environment(browser or node js))
For example:

function first() {
  console.log("First");
}

function second() {
  first();
  console.log("Second");
}

second();

👉 Execution flow:

second() goes into stack
first() goes on top → runs → removed
then "Second" prints
Output:
First
Second

However, JavaScript also needs to handle operations that take time, such as timers, network requests, or user interactions. 
Instead of blocking the call stack, these tasks are handed off to Web APIs (provided by the browser or Node.js environment). 
These APIs take care of asynchronous operations like setTimeout, setInterval, fetch, and DOM events in the background.
(the moment js code encouters a functionaly which is  a runtime features all it does is trigger the request to runtime and donot wait for the exicution , 
so immedialty come back so main thered(native code) is not distrured by anything where it is running or not)

For example:

console.log("Start");

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("Timer Done");
}, 2000);

console.log("End");

👉 Here:

setTimeout is sent to Web APIs
JS does NOT wait
Output:
Start
End
Timer Done

Once an asynchronous task is completed by the Web APIs, its associated callback function doesn’t go directly back into the call stack. 
Instead, it is placed into a waiting area called the Callback Queue (or Task Queue). This queue holds all completed async callbacks in 
the order they are finished.

Example:

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("Task 1");
}, 1000);

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("Task 2");
}, 500);

👉 Even though Task 2 finishes first, both go into the queue and wait for execution order based on completion and event loop timing.
Now comes the most crucial part: the Event Loop. The event loop continuously monitors both the call stack and the callback queue.
 Its job is simple but powerful—it checks whether the call stack is empty. If the call stack is busy executing synchronous code, 
 the event loop does nothing and waits. But as soon as the call stack becomes empty, the event loop takes the first callback from 
 the queue and pushes it into the call stack for execution.
 Example:
console.log("Start");
setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("Async Task");
}, 0);

console.log("End");

👉 Step-by-step:

"Start" → runs
setTimeout → goes to Web APIs
"End" → runs
Callback enters queue
Event loop checks → stack empty
Executes callback

Output:

Start
End
Async Task

This cycle continues endlessly, allowing JavaScript to efficiently handle both synchronous and asynchronous operations without blocking execution.
notes-->All async operations use Web APIs, but not all Web APIs are async.

--->💡 Important Bonus (Microtask Queue – Promises):
console.log("Start");
Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log("Promise");
});

setTimeout(() => {
  console.log("Timeout");
}, 0);

console.log("End");

👉 Output:

Start
End
Promise
Timeout

👉 Reason:

Promise goes to Microtask Queue (higher priority)
Event loop executes microtasks before callback queue

✅ Final understanding:

Sync → Call Stack
Async → Web APIs → Queue
Event Loop → manages execution order
Promises → run before setTimeout

Web APIs
 ├── DOM API
 ├── Timer API
 ├── Fetch API
 ├── Geolocation API
 └── Storage API

Only some of them are asynchronous.

-->Callback hell 
 callback inside a callback inside a callback(code readability issue)

-->Inteversion of control
you are giving control of your code execution to somebody else.
(for solving this Promises)

